Text:
Page 7 not limited to, the costs of administering the Agreement.  All parties shall make such materials available at 
their respective offices at all reasonable times during th e Agreement  period and for five (5) years from the 
date of final payment under this Agreement or unt il a final audit report is accepted by COMMISSION, 
whichever occurs first.  The COMMISSION and any st ate or federal auditor, or any duly authorized 
representative of the state or federal government shall have access to any books, r ecords, and documents of 
the CONSULTANT that are pertinent to the Agreement  for audit, exam inations, excerpts, and transactions, 
and copies thereof shall be furnished if requested.  
 
Subcontracts in excess of $25,000 shall contain this provision. 
 13. INSPECTION OF WORK
 
 The CONSULTANT and any subconsultant shall perm it the COMMISSION, the state, and the FHWA if 
federal participating funds are used in this contract, to  review and inspect the project activities and files at all 
reasonable times during the term of this Agreement in cluding review and inspection on a daily basis.  
 
14. ACKNOWLEDGMENT . CONSULTANT shall acknowledge in all repor ts and literature that the material is 
prepared for and on behalf of the COMMISSION. 
 15. WORK PRODUCTS
. All material, data, information, and writte n, graphic or other work produced under 
this Agreement is subject to the unqualified and unco nditional right of the COMMISSION to use, reproduce, 
publish, display, and make derivative use of all such work , or any part of it, free of charge and in any manner 
and for any purpose; and to authorize others to do so.  If any of the work is subject  to copyright, trademark, 
service mark, or patent, CONSULTANT now grants to the COMMISSION a perpetual, royalty-free, nonexclusive and irrevocable license to use, reproduce, publish, use in the creation of derivative works, and 
display and perform the work, or any part of it, and to  grant to any third party a comparable and coextensive 
sublicense. 
  
CONSULTANT shall include in any subcontract with a th ird party for work under this Agreement terms that 
preserve the rights, interests, and obligations created  by this Section, and that identify the COMMISSION as 
a third-party beneficiary of those provisions. 
 
The CONSULTANT shall not utilize the work produced under this Agreement for any profit-making venture, or sell or grant rights to a third party for that purpose.  
A. Upon completion of all work under this contract, ow nership and title to all custom letters, reports, 
documents, plans, specifications, and estimates and ot her products produced as part of this Agreement 
(herein "deliverables") will automatically be vest ed in the COMMISSION; and no further agreement will 
be necessary to transfer ownership to the CO MMISSION.  The CONSULTANT shall furnish the 
COMMISSION all necessary copies of data needed to  complete the review and approval process. Copies 
may be made for CONSULTANT's records but sh all not be furnished to others without the 
COMMISSION's prior written authoriza tion.  Such deliverables shall be deemed works made for hire and 
all rights in copyright therein shall be retained by COMMISSION. All information derived from these 
deliverables is deemed confidential and may not be di sclosed to any other party without the express prior 
written consent of COMMISSION.  No information obtained during audit work performed under this 
Agreement may be used by CONSULTANT for an y purpose (internal or external), nor may the 
information be discussed with others without the prior written consent of COMMISSION.  
B. Any subcontract in excess of $25,000 entered into as a result of this contract, shall contain all of the 
provisions of this Section.

Summary:
The court held that the contract was void because the COMMISSION had no right to inspect the work of the consultant.