Text:
Page 4 3) Comprehensive or Commercial General Liability Insu rance coverage in the minimum amount of one 
million dollars ($1,000,000) combined single limit (C SL), including coverage for: (a) bodily injury, 
(b) personal injury, (c) broad form property damage, (d) contractual liability, and (e) cross-liability. 
 
4) Professional Liability Insurance in the minimum amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000)               
combined single limit, if, and only if, this Subparagraph is initialed by CONSULTANT and 
COMMISSION __   /        . 
 
B. Other Insurance Provisions  
1) If any insurance coverage required in this Agreem ent is provided on a “Claims Made” rather than 
“Occurrence” form, CONSULTANT agrees to maintain  the required coverage for a period of three 
(3) years after the expiration of this Agreement (hereinafter “post agreement coverage”) and any 
extensions thereof.  CONSULTANT may maintain the required post agreemen t coverage by renewal 
or purchase of prior acts or tail coverage.  This pr ovision is contingent upo n post agreement coverage 
being both available and reasonably affordable in re lation to the coverage provided during the term of 
this Agreement.  For purposes of interpreting this requirement, a cost not exceeding 100% of the last 
annual policy premium during the term of this Ag reement in order to purchase prior acts or tail 
coverage for post agreement covera ge shall be deemed to be reasonable. The COMMISSION will not 
be responsible for any premiums or assessments on the policy. 
 
2) All required Automobile and Comprehensive or Commercial General Liability Insurance shall be 
endorsed to contain the following clause: 
 
“Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Commission, its officials, employees, agents and volunteers are added as an additional insured as respect s the operations and activities of, or on behalf 
of, the named insured performed under Agreement with the Commission.” 
 
3) All required insurance policies shall be e ndorsed to contain the following clause: 
“This insurance shall not be canceled until after thir ty (30) days prior written notice has been given 
to:    Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Commission 
   Attn: Yesenia Parra    1523 Pacific Avenue 
Santa Cruz, CA 95060 
 
4) CONSULTANT agrees to provide its insurance broker(s) with a full copy of these insurance 
provisions and provide COMMISSION on or before the effective date of this Agreement with 
Certificates of Insurance for all required coverages.  All Certificates of Insurance shall be delivered or 
sent to: 
   Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Commission 
   Attn: Yesenia Parra 
   1523 Pacific Avenue         
   Santa Cruz, CA 95060 
   
5) The CONSULTANT agrees that the in surance herein provided for, sha ll be in effect at all times 
during the term of this contract. In the event sai d insurance coverage expires at any time or times 
during the term of this contract, the CONSULTANT agrees to provide at least thirty (30) days prior 
notice to said expiration date; and a new Certificat e of Insurance evidenci ng insurance coverage as 
provided for herein, for not less than either the rema inder of the term of the contract, or for a period 
of not less than one (1) year. New Certificates of  Insurance are subject to the approval of the 
COMMISSION.  In the event the CONSULTANT fails  to keep in effect at all times insurance

Summary:
The consultant must provide the Commission with insurance certificates that are valid and in force at all times.