Text:
Page 3 principal, or if CONSULTANT or CONSULTANT's principal makes an assignment for the benefit of 
creditors, or if CONSULTANT breaches any term(s) or  violates any provision(s) of this Agreement and 
does not cure such breach or violation within  ten (10) days after written notice thereof by 
COMMISSION.  CONSULTANT shall be liable fo r any and all reasonable costs incurred by 
COMMISSION as a result of such default, including but  not limited to reprocurement costs of the same 
or similar services defaulted by CONSULTANT under this Agreement. 
 
C. CONSULTANT may terminate this Agreement by giving the COMMISSION at least one hundred and 
twenty (120) days advance written notice.  CONSUL TANT shall be liable for any and all reasonable 
costs incurred by COMMISSION as a result of such defa ult, including but not limited to reprocurement 
costs of the same or similar services defaulted or not provided by CONSULTANT under this Agreement. 
 
5. INDEMNIFICATION FOR DAMAGES, TAXES AND CONTRIBUTIONS
. 
CONSULTANT shall exonerate, indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the COMMISSION (which for the 
purpose of this Agreement shall include, without limita tion, its officers, agents, employees and volunteers) 
from and against: A. Any and all claims, demands, losses, damages, defen se costs, or liability of any kind or nature which 
COMMISSION may sustain or incur or which may be im posed upon it for injury to or death of persons, 
or damage to property which arise out of, pertai n to, or relate to CONSULTANT’S negligence, 
recklessness, or willful misconduct under the terms of  this Agreement. Such indemnification includes 
any damage to the person(s), or property( ies) of CONSULTANT and third persons. 
 
B. Any and all Federal, State and Local taxes, charges, fees, or contributions required to be paid with 
respect to CONSULTANT and CONSULTANT’S officers, employees and agents engaged in the 
performance of this Agreement (including, without li mitation, unemployment insurance, social security 
and payroll tax withholding). 
 6. INSURANCE
. CONSULTANT, at its sole cost and expense, for the full term of this Agreement, and any 
extensions thereof, shall obtain and maintain at mi nimum compliance with all of  the following insurance 
coverage(s) and requirements.  Such insurance c overage shall be primar y coverage as respects 
COMMISSION and any insurance or self-insurance maintained by COMMISSION shall be excess of 
CONSULTANT’S insurance coverage and shall not contribute to it. 
 
If CONSULTANT utilizes one or more subconsultant s in the performance of this Agreement, 
CONSULTANT shall obtain and maintain Independent CONSULTANT’s Insurance as to each subconsultant 
or otherwise provide evidence of insurance coverage fro m each subconsultant equiva lent to that required of 
CONSULTANT in this Agreement. 
 
A. Types of Insurance and Minimum Limits   
1) Workers’ Compensation in the minimum statutorily  required coverage amounts.  This insurance 
coverage shall not be required if the CONSULT ANT has no employees and certifies to this fact by 
initialing here                . 
 
2) Automobile Liability Insurance for each of CONS ULTANT’S vehicles used in the performance of 
this Agreement, including owned, non-owned (e.g. owned by CONSULTANT’S employees), leased 
or hired vehicles, in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence for 
bodily injury and property damage.  This insurance coverage shall not be required if vehicle use by 
the CONSULTANT is not a material part of performance of this Agreement and CONSULTANT and COMMISSION both certify to this fact by initialing here          
 /        .

Summary:
The New Mexico Human Relations Commission has hired a consultant to evaluate the proposed plan for the reuse of the old New Mexico State Prison, which was slated to be decommissioned in 1999.