Text:
Page 2 deliverable items according to the schedule set fort h in the Scope of Services, the COMMISSION may 
delay payment and/or terminate this Agreement in acc ordance with the provisions of Section 4 of this 
Agreement.  
 
F.  No payment will be made prior to approval of an y work, nor for any work performed prior to approval 
of this Agreement. 
 
G. CONSULTANT shall not exceed milestone cost estimat es as shown in Exhibit B, except with the prior 
written approval of the Contract Manager. 
 
H. The CONSULTANT will be reimbursed after receipt by the COMMISSION’s Contract Manager of 
itemized invoices. Invoices shall be submitted no late r than 45calendar days after the performance of 
work for which the CONSULTANT is billing. Invoices shall be mailed to the COMMISSION’s 
Contract Manager at the following address:  
SCCRTC, 1523 Pacific Ave, Santa Cruz, CA, 95060 
 The invoices must include the following information: 
1. Labor (staff name, hours charged, hourly billi ng rate, current charges and cumulative 
charges) performed during the billing period by task; 
2. Itemized expenses incurred during the billing period; 
3. Total invoice/payment requested; 
4. Total amount previously paid under this Agreement; 
5. Report of expenditures by CONSULTANT and subconsultants for each task and subtask 
or milestone and estimated percentage completion by such divisions of work; 
6. Written progress reports, in a format to be mutually agreed upon, that is sufficiently 
detailed for the Contract Manager to determ ine if the CONSULTANT is performing to 
expectations and is on sche dule; provides communication of interim findings; addresses 
any difficulties or special problems encountered, so remedies can be developed; and other information as requested by COMMISSION. 
7. CONSULTANT's final invoice must be s ubmitted within 60-calendar days after 
acceptance of the CONSULTANT’s work by the Contract Manager.  
 
I.  For personnel subject to prevailing wage rates as described in the California Labor Code, all salary 
increases, which are the direct result of chang es in the prevailing wage rates are reimbursable. 
 
3. TERM
. This Agreement shall take effect on (DATE ); contingent upon prior approval by the 
COMMISSION governing board, and the CONSULTANT shall commence work after notification to 
proceed by the COMMISSION’S Contract Manager. The Agreement shall end on (DATE ), unless earlier 
terminated or extended by contract amendment. The CONSULTANT is advised that this Agreement is not 
binding and enforceable until it is fully execu ted and approved by the COMMISSION's board. 
 
4. EARLY TERMINATION .  
A. COMMISSION may terminate this Agreement for its conve nience any time, in whole or part, by giving 
CONSULTANT thirty-day (30-day) written notice ther eof.  Within thirty days of the COMMISSION's 
receipt of CONSULTANT's final billing, COMMI SSION shall pay CONSULTANT its allowable costs 
incurred to date of termination and those allo wable costs determined by COMMISSION to be 
reasonably necessary to effect such termination.  Thereafter, CONSULTANT shall have no further 
claims against COMMISSION under this Agreement. 
 
B. COMMISSION may terminate this Agreement for C ONSULTANT's default if a federal or state 
proceeding for the relief of debtors is undertaken  by or against CONSULTANT, or CONSULTANT's

Summary:
The Commission, in its discretion, may terminate this Agreement for the CONSULTANT's default if it determines that the CONSULTANT has failed to perform the work in the amount of time specified for such work, or that the CONSULTANT has failed to furnish the COMMISSION with a copy of the invoices for such work.